TOGETHER  
    ARTIN
 STRATEGIC PLAN 
2025-2030 2
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA
Territory Acknowledgment
The Art Gallery of Greater Victoria acknowledges it is located on the traditional territories of the l əkk̓̓ ʷəŋən 
Peoples, today known as the Songhees and Esquimalt Nations. As guests on these lands we extend our 
appreciation for the opportunity to live and learn on their territory.
3
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA
IMAGE CREDITS 
Programming, exhibition, and engagement photos used through-
out this document are courtesy of the Art Gallery of Greater 
Victoria, unless otherwise noted.
COVER (top left) 
Michael Snow, Bikini (detail), 1963, oil on canvas, overall: 154 x 
227.7 cm Robert A. Laidlaw Fund, AGGV 1969.064.001 a-c.
INSIDE COVER (top right) 
Dana Claxton, Headdress – Connie, 2019, LED Firebox with 
transmounted chromogenic transparency, Courtesy of the artist.
BACK COVER 
(top left) Cedar weaving workshop at the AGGV with Jessica 
Sault, Nuu-chah-nulth from the Tseshaht First Nation, and 
Cheyanne Tinoco from the Cowichan Nation.
(bottom left) Installation image of Adorned exhibition at the 
AGGV, featuring artist Meghan O'Brien.
The Art Gallery of Greater Victoria (AGGV) 
has been a vibrant member of the city’s arts 
community since a volunteer group of artists 
began “The Little Arts Centre” in the 1940s. Over 
80 years later, the AGGV welcomes over 70,000 
visitors each year, houses the largest public 
collection in British Columbia, and is supported by 
valued members, donors, funders, volunteers, an 
expert staff and dedicated board of directors.
The AGGV is at an exciting crossroads —one that 
includes plans for a long-anticipated return to 
downtown, and much more. The Gallery will be 
guided in the next stage of its journey by this new 
strategic plan and particularly by the strategic 
vision, mission and values that emerged from 
conversations with the community—Indigenous 
Peoples, the public, members, donors, artists, arts 
leaders, educators, and volunteers. Thank you 
to everyone who contributed to our new shared 
strategic vision: Together in Art . 
Over the next five years, the Gallery will focus on 
the key strategic priorities  outlined in this plan.  
We look forward to collaborating with the 
community to produce thought-provoking 
exhibitions and programs that matter to an 
increasingly broad and diverse community. 
The Collection will be the inspiration and 
foundation for telling resonant stories.  Using 
different mediums, putting art and artists at the 
centre of programming, the Gallery will engage 
with people in new and exciting ways.
The Gallery will provide opportunities for 
inclusive and welcoming art experiences for all . 
Everyone should be able to see themselves when 
they walk through the door of a Gallery that is 
barrier-free and meets the operational needs of a 
21st-century art museum.
We are committed to building the understanding 
and trust that are critical for strong relationships 
with Indigenous communities . We wish to honour 
the Indigenous principle of “nothing about us 
without us.” This begins with listening, learning, 
and working together to break down historical 
barriers and find pathways to reconciliation. 
The Gallery looks forward to building and 
nurturing all relationships —ensuring they are 
centered around equity, diversity, inclusion 
and accessibility for people of all ages and 
backgrounds, and in a truly inclusive space.
Thank you for joining the AGGV as we work 
Together in Art to create a new future for the 
Gallery and our community.
 
Foreword 4
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA
Our Vision
The Art Gallery of Greater 
Victoria is a welcoming public 
space that encourages 
dialogue and understanding 
through art. 
Our Mission
The Art Gallery of Greater Victoria connects people and art to build a better understanding 
of our world. We are an accessible gathering place for people to experience art through 
exhibitions, programs, and other media and to create spaces for conversation and learning. 
We responsibly steward the collections for future generations. 
We Value
  ART AND ARTISTS
We believe in the power of art and artists to 
bring us together.
  CHANGE
We strive to adapt to and inspire change 
and create relevant experiences for the 
community.
  COURAGE
We take chances and use art to challenge 
the status quo.
  BELONGING
We foster belonging by centering equity, 
diversity, and inclusion in all that we do.
  CURIOSITY
We embrace learning, new ideas, and 
welcome critical perspectives.5
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA
Where We’re Headed  2025-2030
STRATEGIC GOAL 
Create a welcoming and 
inclusive art experience.
WHAT WILL THIS LOOK LIKE? 
• The AGGV is a welcoming and 
accessible space for all to 
enjoy art, in person and online.
• The AGGV audiences grow and 
are more diverse.
• Greater collaborations across 
disciplines expand our reach 
and strengthen the art 
experience.
1
STRATEGIC GOAL 
Build a new gallery.
WHAT WILL THIS LOOK LIKE? 
• We have a plan to successfully 
deliver the project.
• The Gallery has a clear 
operational plan for the future.
• The new Gallery will be 
informed by community 
conversations.
4
STRATEGIC GOAL 
Center Indigenous voices 
and perspectives in 
Gallery operations. 
WHAT WILL THIS LOOK LIKE? 
Activating the Canadian Museum 
Association’s Moved to Action 
report as a guide:
• Decisions related to Indigenous 
art and artists are made by 
and with Indigenous People.
• AGGV policies support 
Indigenous rights, practice, 
and knowledge.
• AGGV grows Indigenous 
collections, programs, and 
exhibitions.
• AGGV builds, sustains, 
and retains Indigenous 
relationships.
3
STRATEGIC GOAL 
Animate our collection  
to tell stories.
WHAT WILL THIS LOOK LIKE? 
• The collection is at the heart of 
our programming.
• Access to the collection is 
improved.
• The collection is more 
representative of the diversity 
of contemporary society.
2
WHAT WILL THIS LOOK LIKE? 
• We are financially and 
environmentally sustainable.
• Increased awareness of who 
we are and our impact.
• We center equity, diversity, 
inclusion, and accessibility 
to create a safe and healthy 
organizational culture.
STRATEGIC GOAL 
Strengthen operational 
resilience.
56
1 Auguste Rodin, Mercury Emerging from a Cloud (Study for the Gates of Hell), n.d., bronze, overall 
(measurements for figure) 35.5 x 37.5 x 18.5 cm, Mrs. Massy Goolden Purchase Fund, AGGV.1964.075.001  
2 Lawren S. Harris, Mountain Sketch LI (Near Moraine Lake), n.d., oil, image: 37.5 × 29.5 cm, Gift of Ian and 
Andrew Burchett from the estate of their parents, Peter and Damaris Burchett, AGGV.2019.021.003   
3 Terrance Houle, Urban Indian Series (#7), Photographer: Jarusha Brown, 2007, digital C print, LightJet; 
colour, 72.4 x 92.9 cm, Honouring John McCaig for 6 years of service on the AGGV Board of Directors 
from 2008-2014, AGGV.2010.022.001  4 Sophie Pemberton, Untitled (Portrait of a Girl), 1902, oil, overall 
(image/support): 63.5 × 76.3 cm, Estate of Theresa Susan Yoder Moyle, AGGV.1989.002.001  5 Kent 
Monkman, Watercolour Study for Constellation of Knowledge (Cobalt) (detail), 2022, watercolour on 
acid-free paper, 55.8 x 74.9 cm. AGGV.2023.012.001  6 Takao Tanabe, Skeena #2, 1970, acrylic, overall: 
86.4 x 85 cm, Gift of the Artist, AGGV.2004.031.013  7 Hjalmer Wenstob, Bentwood Box, 2017, styrofoam, 
operculum shells, overall: 45.7 × 61 × 30.5 cm, Purchased with the assistance of Donna and John 
de Haan. In memory of Stella S. Zwirzenski. AGGV 2020.008.001 a.b  8 Kraak Charger with Birds and 
Vegetation Motif, porcelain; blue underglaze, overall (diameter of rim): 10 x 49.7 cm base (diameter of 
rim): 26.2 cm, Gift of Alice H. and Ramsay Gordon Cooper, AGGV.1993.067.001
Our Collection
With over 22,000 works of art, the 
Art Gallery has the largest public 
collection in British Columbia, 
including the most important 
collection of Asian art in Western 
Canada.
4
6
8
5
7
3
2
17
9 Edward John Hughes, Steamer at the Old Wharf, Nanaimo, 1958, oil, overall (support; sight: 60.3 x 93; framed: 77.0 x 110): 61 x 94 cm, Gift of Mary Alice Segal, Miles 
Keenleyside, Anne Katherine McCullum and Sara Lynn Jackson, AGGV.1992.056.001  10 Kano Sanraku, Peacocks and Pine Trees (Screen from Nijo Castle, Kyoto), 
c.1620, mineral colours, gold leaf, overall: 216 x 2332.2 cm, Gift of Uno and Dianne Langmann, AGGV.1995.019.001  11 Brendan Tang, Manga Ormolu Version 5.0o, 2014, 
ceramic, overall: 47 × 21.5 × 21.5 cm, Purchased with the support of the Canada Council for the Arts Acquisition Grants program and the George and Lola Kidd 
BC Art Acquisitions Fund, AGGV.2015.012.001  12 Emily Carr, Odds and Ends, 1939, oil, overall: 67.4 x 109.5 cm, Formerly in the collection of the Greater Victoria Public 
Library, transferred to the Art Gallery of Greater Victoria, AGGV.1998.001.001  13 Walter Joseph Phillips, York Boat on Lake Winnipeg, 1930, woodcut (medium remarks: 
ink, black, grey green, red, blue, green, dark brown, ochre, yellow, grey, buff), overall: 26.1 x 35 cm, Gift of Mrs. H.V. Bartholomew, AGGV.1965.090.001  14 France 
Trépanier, Refuge: Shelter, 2021, pastel, charcoal, 154.2 × 101.6 cm, Purchased from the artist, AGGV.2022.018.004  15 Alfred Joseph Casson, Summer Morning, Bon 
Echo Rock, Lake Mazinaw, 1959, oil, overall: 60.5 x 76 cm, Gift of George & Lola Kidd, AGGV.2008.003.025
11
13 14 15
12
109The exhibition 
tour was an amazing 
experience. It was 
fascinating learning 
about the different lives 
of the artists behind 
the artwork. As a first-
generation immigrant, 
I could resonate a lot 
with the stories that 
were told. The gallery is 
a beautiful place with 
so much culture.”
—STUDENT 
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA8
One of the best 
art galleries I've 
been to across 
Canada.”
—VISITOR
The sheer size of 
the Art Gallery Paint-In 
shows how active our 
artistic community is in 
Victoria. It is amazing to 
have a place and time 
where we can all share 
our work with the greater 
community and meet 
one another.”
—LOCAL ARTIST  
I appreciated the 
beautiful installations 
at the AGGV. There were 
many interactive pieces 
which we were able to 
take part in.”
—VISITOR
Visiting the galleries 
today was a visual and 
emotional delight, thank 
you for opening all the 
doors so I could access 
the galleries in my 
wheelchair.”
—VISITOR
Thank-you again 
for your assistance 
with booking and with 
your informative and 
engaging school tour! 
I loved the hands-on 
activities for the students, 
how they were engaged 
in group discussions, and 
that they had time to 
share and ask questions 
during the tour.”
—TEACHER
Our Impact
AGGV impacts the community in many ways: fostering social cohesion, improving visitors' 
wellbeing, creating community and belonging, improving our society, creating change, and 
affecting lives. Here are some of the ways we accomplish this:As a major arts and 
culture asset with an 
internationally-renowned 
collection, we have a 
lead role in contributing 
to cultural development 
in the province and to 
showcasing our creative 
city. We share in the City’s 
vision of “Victoria radiating 
creativity and thriving as 
a home to creative people 
and everyday artistic 
encounters.”
Our Role
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT? 
With over 22,000 works of art, the Art Gallery has the 
largest public collection in British Columbia including 
one of the most important collections of Asian art in 
North America.
When it first opened in 1951, the Art Gallery of Greater 
Victoria exhibited art in the historic 1889 mansion that 
is now adjacent to its seven modern galleries, which 
were added in the 1950s and 1970s. 
We play a starring role as an arts and cultural 
attraction in the Provincial Capital Region. The AGGV is 
situated on the traditional lands of the Songhees and 
Esquimalt Nations, who have hosted visitors from near 
and far for centuries. We hope to honour their spirit by 
welcoming all people to our spaces.
By working Together in Art through collaboration 
and partnerships, and the continued support of our 
amazing donors, the AGGV promises to uphold its 
relationship to everyone we serve; and to continue 
to foster social cohesion and promote education ; 
to serve as a safe convenor of conversation and 
community, and be a point of pride for all people of 
this province.
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA 9
tourists
universities
colleges
members
donors
teachers
staff
board
volunteers
artists
interest-holders
immigrantsindigenous
2SLGBTQI+
parents
sponsors
museums galleries
education
Y YJ
people with disabilities
pride
funders
outreach
businesses
corporationscollectors visitors
wholesalers
city builders
funders
families
schools10
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA
What We Heard
Our Strategic Vision is Informed by You!
BIG CULTURAL SECTOR SHIFTS AND OUR 
PLANNING CONTEXT
Like any sector, the cultural sector has 
experienced major social, technological, 
economic, and environmental shifts in recent 
years which continue to play out, and our 
strategic goals intentionally reflect these 
considerations.
• Truth and Reconciliation 
• Shifting life cycle of arts organizations 
• Equity, diversity, inclusion, and accessibility
• New approaches to art-making 
• Responding to community issues with arts-
based interventions and strategies 
• New operating, funding, and governance 
models
• Generational considerations
• Festivals and events are a leading way for 
participatory cultural consumption
• Technology including immersive experiences, 
digital competencies, and AI
• Climate crisis
HOW WE ENGAGED
The AGGV is grateful to all those who contributed 
their voices to shaping our future direction—
Together in Art—including over 500 sources of 
individual input we have gathered, themed, and 
analyzed. Thank you!
The AGGV's engagement journey took place 
over two years and included a variety of ways to 
listen to our members, donors, visitors, artists, the 
Indigenous community, as well as the public. This 
included:
• Community workshops
• Interviews with groups representing IBPOC, 
2SLGBTQI+, people with disabilities, and 
newcomers
• Public survey
• Open houses
• Educator surveys
• Indigenous Community Roundtable
• Donor/member sessions
• Board and staff workshops
• Board and management strategic planning 
retreat
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA10
TOGETHER IN ART: ART GALLERY OF GREATER VICTORIA
11
Be a Part of It!
• Visit the Gallery
• Participate in programming
• Attend openings and events
• Become a member
• Donate today
• Leave a legacy
• Follow us and share on 
socials
ABOVE (bottom left) 
Installation image of Afroquatics: A Call and Response Below the Surface featuring work by Kemi Craig.
LEFT (far left) 
Indigenous engagement at the AGGV. Photo courtesy of Called to Action Collaborative. 
aggv.ca/support
How We Move Ahead
And Work Together in Art
Together in Art requires building trust with everyone we 
serve. Active listening and collaboration will be critical 
as we step out the supporting actions to our strategic 
vision.
As we look more deeply at our programming and at 
ways to animate the collection, a key metric will be 
outlining ways to share diverse and transformative art 
experiences that invite curiosity.
Other ways of measuring our success will include 
identifying supporting actions to our strategic vision 
that bring people more joy and happiness—we want 
to be a point of pride and a place that celebrates our 
community and its relationship to art.
The supporting actions to this vision also need to ensure 
that people’s voices continue to be reflected in the 
strategy’s implementation—that is just another way we 
can build trust as we work Together in Art .1040 Moss Street, 
Victoria, BC  V8V 4P1   
T: 250.384.4171    
aggv.ca             